Previously on The Affair...
Those of you who knew
my dad will-will know
that we didn't always get along so well,
but I-I loved him.
- That was a lovely service.
- You're coming back
to the house though, aren't you?
I don't know.
Do you think we should
come back to the house?
Only if you want to.
How was teaching this week?
You have any fun?
Not really.
I thought it was really elegant, Audrey.
I thought it was very dull,
unless it was supposed to be a satire.
Was it?
Hello. You just
popped up out of nowhere.
Bienvenue, Monsieur Solloway.
Je suis Professeur Le Gall.
I'm just so pleased to finally meet you.
I feel that you and I
are kindred spirits.
- Silence is violence!
- Was there a rape?
- I'm not sure.
I thought I'd come to America
and have a grand adventure,
and instead it's...
Instead, it's New Jersey.
Noah, are you all right?
Yeah. I'm okay.
Officer Santos, who knows I'm here?
What do you mean?
I'm just wondering
if it's possible
for anybody still inside Fishkill
to find out my current address.
Why are you asking, Solloway?
Never mind.
It's... it's not important.
Aah!
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
It's a lovely day, Professor.
Do you have anything planned?
Just preparing dinner for
a few people tonight.
Coq au vin?
We shall see.
Professor Le Gall? We
don't want to bother you.
We just wanted to say that
we're loving your class.
Yeah. I thought medieval French
literature was gonna be boring,
but you're not boring at all.
Well, thank you.
I believe love is never
boring, even 900 years ago.
What are you reading, Professor?
This I'm afraid is very boring.
Andreas Capellanus.
It's part of my research.
Are you enjoying your time here?
Are you glad you came?
It's very exciting to be in America.
"Lancelot, ou le Chevalier
de la Charrette."
Come prepared with questions.
- Okay.
- Of course. Bye.
Speaking French.
How can you possibly
call this an ambiguous case?
She got into bed
with him of her own accord.
It doesn't matter.
She did not want to give
Nicholas Perry a blowjob.
Are you saying that you're
okay with forcing a woman
against her will to give you a blowjob?
For fuck's sake, Audrey. Of
course I'm not saying that,
but this specific lady
gave no indication
that she didn't want
what he was giving her.
I'm sorry, Mike. Were you there?
She admits it herself. She does.
She admits she swallowed.
What? Come on.
Grow up. Could we not just at least
maybe... maybe consider the idea
that she was on board here?
Mike, every two minutes
someone is sexually
assaulted in our country.
Do you know how often the
perpetrator is punished?
- Less than one percent.
- Thanks.
Thank you. Yes.
And do you know why?
Because it's because of
this exact conversation,
because we don't believe our victims.
We make them feel like
they asked for it.
Okay. I'm just
trying to have a dialogue,
but if you're just gonna recite
a Planned Parenthood pamphlet at me...
My God. What's the point to it?
I can't believe I ever slept with you.
Okay, all right.
So that's what this little
tirade is really about, right?
Right, Audrey? Admit it.
What I will admit, Cornwall,
is that I wanted to fuck you
at the time, and I regretted it after,
but because I'm a cognizant human being
who is able to determine and
articulate my own desire,
I did not bring rape
charges against you,
even after I found out
what a giant turd you are.
But if we had had sex against my will,
that would have been different.
Do you understand that distinction?
Yes. I understand the distinction.
Do you think I'm capable of
understanding that distinction?
Frankly, right now I'm just
terrified of you, Audrey.
My God. You're a fucking dick.
Whoa! Come on. It's the coq au vin.
I'm sorry, Professor. I'm sorry.
I just... he's... I-I can't. I can't...
please tell me it's not
like this in France.
It's not at all like this in France.
It's much worse.
- What?
- Yes.
I'm afraid the whole topic is
still not taken seriously.
Oui? C'est bon.
You're very lucky to be surrounded
by such enlightened chaps
such as myself and Blake.
Professor.
It's curious, though.
In this case, the two parties
agree on what happened.
She gave him a blowjob.
He didn't force her to.
- No, he didn't.
- But they don't agree
on the meaning of the act.
He said she wanted to.
She said she didn't.
Is that right?
- She didn't consent.
- But he didn't force her.
- No.
- But she didn't consent.
That's very confusing, isn't it?
- No. Not to me.
- Yes.
I see that it's quite clear to you.
But I live some decades now,
and there's a lot
about what I want that
I don't understand
and that I don't expect
a lover to understand.
Professor Le Gall, please tell me
that you see the problem here.
I see problems, I do.
But I think we all live in our
own version of the truth,
and thus we are prone to
terrible miscommunications.
Perhaps she was trying to
communicate one thing,
and he read something else.
That's possible, isn't it?
Yes. Of course it's possible.
That's why the university
needs to establish
and enforce a mandate of verbal consent.
I understand how such a thing
would protect the university,
but I don't see how sex
itself would survive.
Why not?
Because I am afraid the articulate
is the enemy of the erotic.
Isn't the whole point
that you don't know
what your lover will do next?
That you give yourself over
to a sensory experience
that you haven't planned
and can't control?
The reason I like sex
is that I can finally,
for a moment,
turn off my neurotic mind
and just be consumed.
If I give my lover permission... yes,
no, touch me,
not there... don't I undermine
the potency of his desire?
I'm sorry. You're all looking
at me like I'm crazy.
Do I sound crazy?
No.
Well, Professor Le
Gall is a love expert.
Professor Le Gall is a
courtly love expert.
What's your point?
Besides the
fact that this manner
of thinking has been out
of date for 600 years,
was written entirely by men
wherein the women served as
the object of male desire,
but had no voice of her own.
So perhaps we can forgive
Professor Le Gall for assuming
that the articulation of female desire
is somehow anathema to
sexual satisfaction.
But with all due respect,
Professor, I would argue
that she simply never learned
the appropriate language,
because I can tell you exactly
how I want you to fuck me.
- Believe me, I remember.
- And Lila can tell you
exactly how she wants you to fuck her.
Hard.
And if you give me 45 minutes,
I can teach Professor Le Gall
to tell you exactly how she
would like you to fuck her,
though you would not be
given the opportunity
in a million years.
Forgive me.
I think I hear the soufflé falling.
- I have to have you right now.
- Mike, no.
Speaking French - No, no, no.
- No, no.
- Anybody could walk in.
Who gives a fuck? Come on.
No. Mike, no.
Professor... I'm so sorry.
I didn't mean to offend you.
You... you didn't.
Yes, I did. Of course I did.
I behaved like a total asshole.
I just... it's Noah Solloway.
He just makes me so agitated.
I mean, I didn't know
he was gonna be here.
I mean, why did you invite him?
We bumped into each other on the quad,
and he seemed rather lonely, so...
I'm taking his class.
Did I tell you that?
- You didn't.
- Well, I am,
and he's a complete dick.
I mean an utter asshole,
and all I can do is think
about fucking him.
So do it.
Seriously, Audrey. What's stopping you?
- Jesus!
- That he's your professor?
That he's twice your age?
That he's an ex-felon?
But you're so liberated.
My God, Mike, why are
you so obsessed with me?
- Obsessed with you?
- Yes.
I'm trying to have a private
conversation with my professor.
Do you mind?
Yeah, I do mind, Audrey,
because I was here first.
Today romantic love has
replaced Christianity
as a doctrine for enforcing
the ideal of monogamy,
and the French realize
all this is unrealistic.
What happened to Noah? Did he leave?
No. He went upstairs. He
said he wasn't feeling well.
Lila, tell me you agree with me.
The French recognize
marriage for what it is:
A social construct created
to protect property.
I agree with that...
with that one statement
out of everything you said tonight.
Just don't be that happy.
You... you like... you
just like disagreeing.
Hi.
Hello.
I was... I was looking for a quiet space.
I hope you don't mind.
- Are you okay?
- Yeah.
I haven't been around that
many people in a long time.
Takes some getting used to again.
Are they always like that?
The students? You tell me.
It's your country.
I am just a visiting professor.
What's a nice girl like you
doing in a place like this?
I'm here because the library claims
to have unearthed certain pages
from a rare manuscript
that I happen to be an expert on.
Really? What is it?
Les Esches d'Amour.
The Chess of Love.
It was written in the 14th century.
And this library thinks they
have some missing pages.
Do they?
I'm not sure yet, but if
I had to wager a guess,
I'd say no.
How long have they got you for?
I'll teach until the
end of the semester.
I've promised my husband
I'd be home for Christmas.
- Long time to be away.
- Yes, but they gave me
this generous residency,
and this house, and the
cutest little red car.
I love that car.
Is this your...
Yes.
C'est Etienne.
With my daughter,
Sabine, many years ago.
She's all grown up now.
She a medievalist, like her mom?
No, but my husband is.
A very famous one.
A famous medievalist?
Yes. In certain circles.
That's how we met. I was his student.
Do you think it's true what
Audrey was saying downstairs?
What was Audrey saying?
That she knows exactly what
she wants from her body.
From men.
From everything.
I think Audrey is...
I think Audrey is very young.
Yes.
But I don't ever remember
feeling that confident,
even when I was her age.
Maybe she really does know
exactly what she wants.
Maybe this younger generation
simply understands themselves better.
Maybe the uncertainty
that I've always assumed
is integral to eroticism...
doesn't exist for them.
Are you asking me if I
think the kids downstairs
are having better sex than you or I?
Do you?
No.
But they may be having more of it.
- I'd... I'd better go.
- No! Stay. What?
No, no. I-I'm sorry.
I'll let myself out.
Where were you, Julie?
I still don't know what to
do about Noah Solloway.
I'm just gonna fuck him
and get it over with,
and then I'll stop thinking about him.
But if you sleep with him,
you'll never actually know
what he thinks of your work.
Fuck.
Both speaking French.
Yeah, of course.
- Okay.
- Yeah.
Noah?
Speaking French
murmuring in French
Noah, I'm here.
Any medical history?
Any allergies?
- No. I don't know.
- Is he taking any medication?
I don't know. I'm not his wife.
- Hello.
- Sabine?
Oui, ma cherie.
Mon amour.
Noah! Noah!
Hey. Come on.
Come on.
Stay with me. Stay with me.
Hey, come on.
A 50-year-old male
with penetrating trauma
to the left neck.
Six-inch blade. He's
80 over 40 and tachy.
Coags and CBC are pending.
He's typed and crossed with
four units on standby.
We're prepping OR 4.
We're still trying to
reach his next of kin.
All clear. Shocking.
All clear.
Solloway?
Hey.
Sorry it took me a while to get here.
They never let us know
who's coming through.
I hope that Warden Hagan
wasn't too much of a hard-ass.
He can really lay down the law,
but, he's actually a good guy,
once you get to know him.
- No. He was fine. Thanks.
- Good.
You don't remember me, do you?
You... you look...
you look familiar.
- I...
- No, I don't.
John Gunther.
I'm from Bloomsburg.
Bloomsburg, Pennsylvania?
No shit.
We've actually met.
It was high school. Yeah.
Swim meets.
Remember All-County '85?
You took the whole thing.
It was impressive.
I was just in the back
somewhere drowning.
Sure. Yeah. I...
Yeah. You don't remember me.
It's okay.
I've been following your career.
Pretty impressive stuff.
Well, it hasn't exactly
worked out that well for me.
Shit happens.
Hey, look. I'm,
gonna keep an eye out
for you, all right?
Thank you.
You know, over the years, I've
wanted to reach out to you,
but I just never really...
but here you are.
Fucking Noah Solloway.
Okay.
Mr. Solloway?
- How do you feel?
- Terrible.
Well, these should help with that.
That's one Zofran plus
two Percocet for pain.
Here. Let me lift your head up.
There you go.
Can you tell me
what the date is today?
September 24th.
That's right. Do you know where you are?
- In the hospital.
- Do you know why?
- I had surgery.
- Very good.
Well, you're lucky to be alive, Mr.
Solloway.
Wait. What happened? What... wh...
- How did I get here?
- I don't know all the details,
but your wife may be able to tell you.
My wife?
She just stepped out to use the ladies'.
She'll be so happy to see you awake.
Wait. Who... who are you...
who are you talking about?
Can you tell me your wife's name, Mr.
Solloway?
Alison Bailey, but
she... we're not together.
- Is she here?
- No.
I believe she said a different name.
- Helen.
- You're awake.
- Told me you were sleeping.
- I just woke up.
- You look okay. He looks okay.
- Feel like shit, actually.
- Who told you I was here?
- Nina. I couldn't believe it.
- I'm sorry.
- I almost thought that she
- was joking.
- You said you were the wife?
- She's my ex.
- Have the police arrived yet?
- Police?
- They really
- should have been here by now.
- Why?
- Who did this to you?
- Who did what to me?
Who stabbed you, Noah?
What... what is she talking about?
- Did I get stabbed?
- Why doesn't he know that?
I'm-I'm very sorry, Mr. Solloway.
You were attacked by
someone with a knife.
You bled profusely.
They took you to surgery where Dr.
Quittner
closed the artery off.
- Jesus.
- You were very lucky.
The blade missed your airway,
and your jugular vein,
and just nicked your artery.
- Who did this to you?
- I don't know.
I-I-I don't remember.
- You can't remember anything?
- No.
Well, why not? I mean
why can't he remember?
I'm not sure, Mrs. Solloway.
When is the surgeon coming back?
'Cause I'd like to speak to him.
They found you in some
student's apartment?
I'm renting it.
And you really don't remember anything?
I remember washing
dishes late at night...
Well, why were you
washing dishes so late?
Could this have been an accident?
- Maybe I f-fell or something.
- It was a knife, Noah.
A fucking knife sliced into your throat.
- Okay.
- Are you sure that
he doesn't have any brain
damage or something?
He had a CAT scan, and the
result came back normal.
Somebody tried to kill you.
Do you understand?
Can we come in now?
Shit, Dad. Are you all right?
Hey, kids. I've been better.
Everything's gonna be okay.
Does this thing have a massage feature?
Your dad's right. He's going to be fine.
He should be home in a couple of days.
He doesn't live with us.
Um, Mr. Solloway,
I need to ask you
a few more questions. I'm sorry.
And then I'll let you rest.
Can you tell me,
do you have a history of
any previous surgeries?
He had his appendix out ten years ago.
That's it, unless you
count his wisdom teeth.
- No.
- I think you were what,
- 25 or 26?
- It's not relevant.
- What about medications?
- No. He doesn't...
- Are you currently taking any?
- He hates medication.
He won't even take Tylenol
when he has a fever.
- I'm on Vicodin.
- What?
- Dosage?
- 7.5 milligrams.
I had a shoulder injury.
I'm... the pain gets pretty bad.
Is that getting worse?
Who's treating you?
- I have a prescription, Helen.
- From who?
That's all I need for now.
Is there anything I can get for you, Mr.
Solloway?
- No. Thank you very much.
- Can we go now?
That's a good idea. Your
father could use some rest.
Can you bring your
sister down to the cafeteria
and get her something to eat and
I'll meet you guys there, okay?
But I don't have any money.
Nothing too sweet.
Could you get a few more blankets?
It's freezing in here.
Sure.
- What happened to you?
- Helen, I really need to sleep.
You can stay, but just
please stop talking.
And I'll kill you! I'll show you!
Hey, hey, hey! Break it up!
Break it up!
Split it up, all right?
You're both going to the hole next time!
Relax!
- Hey, Solloway.
- Hey.
Congratulations. Happy six months.
Thanks.
It's transparent.
Right. Yeah.
See if you got a shank, or contraband,
or whatever, you know.
It's good, right?
- It's great.
- Yeah.
Can you believe it?
There's a place in Jersey
imports these things.
Takes, like, months to get here.
Prisoner got out last week
and just left it behind,
so I thought that maybe,
you know, you could...
I don't know how to thank you, man.
Use it.
- I will.
- All right.
Yeah.
Hey, I ordered your book.
Am I gonna like it?
Let me know.
I will do.
What, you thought I forgot you?
Thank you.
You're welcome.
- Mr. Solloway.
- Yeah?
- I'm Detective Stanton.
- Detective Romero.
How you feeling? You all right?
Not really. My head's pounding.
Is that nurse anywhere?
Um, she'll be back in a few minutes.
Do you feel up to answering a
few questions in the meantime?
Go ahead. Ask.
Don't think I'll be
able to help you much.
I don't remember a thing.
Well, can you say what you do remember?
I was at the sink washing dishes,
and then I'm here being told
someone stabbed me in the neck.
And you have no idea who
might have done that to you?
- No.
- Look.
We've been by the apartment,
and we got our guys over there now.
And so far we've seen no
signs of a forced entry,
so would you happen to
recall whether or not
you locked the door?
I might have or not. I couldn't...
why? Do you think this was a robbery?
- Unlikely.
- Yeah.
Not with the nature of the injury.
The fact that he went
for the neck, I mean,
that tells us that the assailant
meant to do real harm.
- Yeah. Well, he succeeded.
- Mr. Solloway,
we're treating this attack
as an attempted homicide.
Jesus.
What the fuck?
What about the kid?
- What kid?
- The frat guy.
Regers or the guy I sublet...
- Dan? Dan Regan?
- Right.
Could they have been after him?
Mr. Regan's at the station.
He's cooperating.
Yeah, I mean, plus, you
know, like you say,
he's a 20-year-old Delta Phi kid,
and you just finished
three years at Fishkill.
You're a public figure.
So if either one of
you was gonna be targeted,
we're gonna lean towards you.
I mean, would you agree with that?
- Fine.
- Try to think then.
Is there anyone out there
that's got a gripe with you?
Might want to harm you?
What's your relationship like
with Cole Lockhart these days?
- We don't have one.
- When's the last time
you had any contact with Mr. Lockhart?
I don't know. Years ago.
The trial, I guess.
- Brother's murder trial?
- Right.
Yeah, well, between
what happened to his brother
and the affair with his wife,
Cole is definitely a person of interest.
But, um, what about Alison Bailey?
What about her?
You're still married.
- Yes.
- But estranged.
Wow. You guys know everything
about me, don't you?
Does she still have any
feelings left for you?
How the fuck do I know?
Well, what we're trying to figure out is
if she'd have a problem with
you seeing other women.
Lucky for her, I've been incarcerated
the last three years,
and since I got out I've
been a fucking monk, so...
So, um, Ms., um, Le Gall?
Ms. Le who?
Yeah. Juliette Le Gall.
The woman who found you
and brought you in.
- Juliette found me?
- Yeah.
Juliette found you at 1:38 a. m.
What's your relationship with her?
Well, we met yesterday.
I barely know her.
And yet she was at your house at one...
No, no, no. She wasn't at my house.
I was at her house with several
other people, and then I left.
Everything okay in here?
Yeah, we're good.
Yeah. We'll be done in just a minute.
Look, Mr. Solloway, we're
all on the same side here.
If you just relax...
Relax? Someone tried to fucking kill me,
and you got nothing.
You have no fucking clue who
might actually have done this.
- And when you say "actually"...
- Can you ask them to go?
Just go and do their jobs?
Will you do that for me, please?
I... maybe you
can come back later?
- Okay.
- Yeah, yeah.
Get some rest, Mr. Solloway.
Buzz me when it's filled up.
Thanks a lot.
You're coming home with me.
- Nina, no.
- And why not?
'Cause for all I know
your husband's the one
- who tried to kill me.
- Please.
JP's not smart enough to
get away with murder.
Who the hell lives here?
A friend.
Really? You just got stabbed.
Now you want to go get a booty call?
Apparently she... apparently
she saved my life.
What was she doing at your
apartment at midnight?
I don't know.
I'll wait. I'll take you home after.
No, no, I'm gonna be okay.
You just go home.
I'll... I'll call you tomorrow.
Nina, what are you doing?
I'm crying, you asshole.
Come on. You don't cry. You're
the tough one, remember?
Fucking take them, Noah.
Take them. He left the house to you.
- I don't want it.
- I don't either.
- Well, then fucking sell it.
- I can't.
- Why not?
- You know why.
Nina, I am 50 years old.
You can stop apologizing to me now.
Right. Well, that's...
that's your psychosis.
I'm fine.
- Really?
- It was 30 years ago.
Let's move on.
Well, you're certainly really
good at that, aren't you?
I thought you were the
detectives with more questions.
- They've already been here?
- Just like a TV show.
The younger one even carried
a cup of takeout coffee.
That must have been exciting, right?
Didn't you say you were bored?
Ha.
This is okay?
You must have been frightened.
I actually don't remember it happening.
Strange.
I'm afraid I've also forgotten...
why you were there.
You didn't forget. You
weren't expecting me.
I'm sorry to have scared you.
Honestly, I wasn't scared.
I was angry.
- Why?
- I don't know.
I guess I was hoping that you...
that this wouldn't be so complicated.
Are you all right?
Oui.
Bonne nuit.
I imagine the doctors told
you not to strain yourself.
They say that to everybody.
I make it a rule never
to sleep with a man
after being interrogated
for his attempted murder.
After all, I'm a suspect.
It would look very bad if you
were to drop dead at my home.
Bonne nuit.
- Hey, man.
- Hey.
- How'd you like it?
- I'm really enjoying it.
I wrote it a long time ago.
Hey, would...
would you sign this for me?
Sure.
- To John?
- Gunther's good.
- Here you go.
- Nice.
"To my old friend, Gunther."
Who is that?
That's my wife.
"Lana"? Yeah.
No, n-no. The... the... the book's not...
I'm divorced.
Sorry to hear that.
You know, what you got there
is an inmate violation.
You can't hang a poster on the wall.
It's... it's not a poster.
It's a photo.
It's...
I'm gonna hang on to this for safety.
- Come on, don't...
- Hey!
Fuck.
I'm gonna keep this nice and safe.
Have a nice day.
Fuck.
Detective Stanton? Hi.
It's Noah Solloway.
I think I know who attacked me.
He's a guard at Fishkill
named John Gunther.
He's been following
me since I got out.
The guy's a real monster.
- Sync and corrections by Caio -
- www.addic7ed.com -
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org